# Development of Machine Learning based retrosynthetic tool for computer-aided synthesis planning

Computer-aided synthesis planning (CASP) is focused on accelerating the process by which scientists decide how to synthesize compounds. Machine Learning based retrosynthetic tools have been growing in popularity owing to their efficiency and ability to lower the manual workload on scientists. Being able to predict pathways that are cheaper, more energy efficient and more green chemistry aligned will be the goal of this project. The first phase of the project will involve a comprehensive survey of existing ML and computational chemistry based solutions. Being able to understand the shortcomings of existing solutions is integral to this phase of the project.

The next phase of the project involves coming up with novel ML architectures to come up with better tools for CASP. A primary differentiator is whether CASP methods are template based or template-free. In this work we aim to combine templates based on literature with algorithmically extracted templates. [Kroll et al.](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-023-38347-2#Sec14) showed the effectiveness of adversarial learning in retrosynthetic planning; we want to incorporate ‘negative’ reactions in our training process to promote better results. [Wang et al.](https://pubs.rsc.org/en/content/articlelanding/2020/sc/d0sc04184j) outlined how the problem of retrosynthetic planning can be converted to a tree search problem, which can help us control certain aspects of the pathways like cost, energy efficiency and alignment with green chemistry. As shown in [Kruetter et al.](https://pubs.rsc.org/en/content/articlelanding/2021/sc/d1sc02362d), transformers do an efficient job of predicting chemical reactions in both directions. Thus, we want to implement tree search along with reinforcement learning along with transformers as a secondary solution. Comparing the solutions will prove to be a very important discussion. 

Throughout the entire process, from research to model development and experimentation, I will diligently maintain detailed records. These records serve as a built-in reflection mechanism, showcasing the learning journey, the challenges faced, and the innovative solutions developed. During this project I will be exposed to High-Performance Computing (HPC) systems, various deep learning frameworks, and refining my collaborative coding skills on GitHub. Communication will also be a focal point, refining my ability to convey complex ideas in clear, engaging ways and preparing me to present my findings at conferences and in academic papers. By the end, I hope to have crafted not just solutions but valuable contributions to the scientific community. This might mean publishing a paper detailing our innovative approaches, presenting at conferences to share insights, and even creating open-source tools to aid future researchers. Ultimately, this project promises to equip me with advanced technical skills, polished communication abilities, and the confidence to contribute meaningfully to the field.